.\"
.\"		rjprt Manual Page
.\"
.\"     Date:		14 Jun 2015
.\"		Author:		E. Scott Daniels
.\"                 Robert Eby
.\"
.\"     Mods:		14 Jun 2015 - Created
.\"
.TH RJPRT 1 "Tegu Manual"
.CM 4
.SH NAME
rjprt \- request and pretty-print JSON output from an HTTP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrjprt\fP [\fB-a token\fP] [\fB-D data-string\fP] [\fB-d\fP] [\fB-h\fP] [\fB-j\fP] [\fB-J\fP] [\fB-l dot-string\fP] [\fB-m method\fP] [\fB-r root-string\fP] [\fB-T\fP] [\fB-v\fP] \fB-t target-url\fP
	
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIrjprt(1)\fR is a companion program used by tegu_req(1) to make HTTP requests to Tegu,
and to format the JSON output that is returned.
If \fItegu_req\fP is moved to another machine from the one that Tegu is
installed on, this executable should also be moved and should be placed in
the user's $PATH.
.SH COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
\fIrjprt\fR interprets the following options:
.\" ==========
.TP 8
.B \-a token
Causes an authorization token to be passed to Tegu using the \fBX-Auth-Tegu\fP header.
.\" ==========
.TP 8
.B \-D data-string
Specify the data to be used in the content body of a POST or DELETE request.
If this option is not specified, then the data is read from standard input.
.\" ==========
.TP 8
.B \-d
Causes JSON output from Tegu to be formatted in a dotted hierarchical style.
The default is to display the output in a indented, nested style (but see also -j below).
.\" ==========
.TP 8
.B \-h
Causes HTTP response headers to be printed.
.\" ==========
.TP 8
.B \-j
Causes JSON output from Tegu to be sent directly to the output (but see also -d above).
.\" ==========
.TP 8
.B \-J
Causes the Content-type for data sent to Tegu to be set to \fIapplication/json\fP.
The default is \fItext\fP.
.\" ==========
.TP 8
.B \-l dot-string
Looks for and prints the specific \fIdot-string\fP in the dotted hierarchical output.
If not found, an error is printed.
Use of this option triggers the \fI-d\fP option.
.TP 8
.B \-m method
Specifies the method (GET/POST/DELETE) to be used for the request to Tegu.
The default is GET.
.TP 8
.B \-r name
Allow specification of a "root" name for the JSON output.
The default root name is the empty string.
.TP 8
.B \-T
Causes \fIrjprt\fP to verify the server's identity when making secure TLS (HTTPS) requests to Tegu.
The default behavior is to not check the servers identity.
.TP 8
.B \-v
Causes \fIrjprt\fP to echo the target URL that will be used on standard error.
.TP 8
.B \-t target-url
The target-url to request.
This option is required.

.SH SEE ALSO
tegu_req(1), tegu.cfg(5), tegu(8)
