.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"   Copyright (c) 2013-2015 AT&T Intellectual Property
.\"
.\"   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\"   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"   You may obtain a copy of the License at:
.\"
.\"       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\"   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\"   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\"   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\"   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\"   limitations under the License.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"

.\"
.\"		tegu_req Manual Page
.\"
.\"     Date:		03 Jul 2015
.\"		Author:		Robert Eby (eby@research.att.com)
.\"
.\"     Mods:		03 Jul 2015 - Created
.\"
.TH TEGU.CFG 5 "Tegu Manual"
.CM 4
.SH NAME
tegu.cfg \- configuration file for Tegu
.SH DESCRIPTION
This describes the format and values for the file used to configure Tegu.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file is a text file divided into named sections.
Except for the initial, default section, each section starts with a tag consisting of
the section name, on a line by itself prefixed with a colon.
E.g., the \fInetwork\fP section starts with ":network".
Values in each section are stored as \fIname = value\fP.
Comments are lines starting with zero or more white space characters and a hash symbol (#).

.SS Default Section
The initial section in the configuration file is the default section.
It can also be reintroduced later in the file with the tag \fB:default\fP.
It contains parameters that configure Tegu globally.
.TP 8
.B alttable
An integer specifying the OVS table number to be used for metadata marking.
If more than one table is required, then this is the base, lowest number table to use.
.TP 8
.B favour_ipv6
A boolean flag.
If set (with any value), then IPv6 addresses will be favored if a host has both
IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.
.TP 8
.B log_dir
A directory name that sets the directory where log files are written (cycled daily).
Use "stderr" to write log messages to standard error.
If not specified, the default directory to use is the directory that Tegu is started in.
.TP 8
.B pri_dscp
A space separated list of DSCP (diffserv) values that might be set by applications
that are running on VMs that have reservations.
These values are preserved in packets as they exit the environment.
It is not possible to preserve all by default as that would require 64 flow-mods per
reservation on both the ingress and egress switches.
.TP 8
.B queue_type
Either of the values \fIendpoint\fP or \fIall\fP.
When \fIendpoint\fP is supplied (the default) then the queue settings generated are only
applied to the endpoints of the path (egress and ingress) assuming that intermediate
switches have generic flow-mod rules and queues for pushing prioritised traffic.
It also affects the flow-mods generated.
When \fIendpoint\fP is supplied, flow-mods at the ingress and egress switches are all
that are generated.
.TP 8
.B sdn_host
The DNS name or IP address of the SDN host to be used by the Flow Queue Manager.
.TP 8
.B shell
The shell to use when Tegu needs to run a shell command.
The default is \fI/bin/ksh\fP.
.TP 8
.B static_phys_graph
The file name containing the static graph which is simulated OpenFlow controller
output (JSON) when not using an OpenFlow controller (tegu-lite).
Supplying both sdn_host and graph file, results in the SDN being used and not the static file.
The default value is \fI/etc/tegu/phys_net_static.json\fP.
.TP 8
.B verbose
An integer that controls the master verbosity level for logging.
This controls what level of logging is performed by all parts of Tegu.
The default level is 0.
Higher levels cause more information to be logged.

.SS Agent Manager Section
The Agent Manager section starts with the tag \fB:agent\fP.
It configures the Agent Manager, the part of Tegu which communicates with the Tegu agent processes.
.TP 8
.B iqrefresh
An integer specifying the intermediate queue refresh interval (in seconds).
This value must be at least 90, and is, by default, set to 1800.
.TP 8
.B port
An integer specifying the port that Tegu uses to listen for connections from its agents.
If not specified, the default is 29055.
Note that this is NOT the port that the Tegu API listens on (which is specified by the
\fB-p\fP option described in the \fBtegu(8)\fP manual page).
.TP 8
.B refresh
An integer specifying the refresh interval (in seconds).
This interval determines how often to query each host for a list of MAC addresses served
by that host.
The default is 60 seconds.
.TP 8
.B verbose
An integer that controls the verbosity level for agent manager logging.
The default level is 0, and can be overridden by the master verbose level.

.SS Flow Queue Manager Section
The Flow Queue Manager section starts with the tag \fB:fqmgr\fP.
It configures the Flow Queue Manager, the part of Tegu that is responsible for sending
flow mods and Open vSwitch (OVS) commands to the agents.
.TP 8
.B default_dscp
An integer specifying the DSCP value that is used to mark a priority flow over intermediate
switches.
.TP 8
.B host_check
An integer specifying the frequency (in seconds) that OpenStack is queried for a physical
host list.
.TP 8
.B phost_suffix
A string to add as a suffix to physical host strings for agent commands.
Used to map a simple name (e.g. \fInode1\fP) to a DNS name (e.g.\fInode1.foo.com\fP).
.TP 8
.B queue_check
An integer specifying the frequency (in seconds) of checks for expiring queues.
.TP 8
.B ssq_cmd
The command to execute when needing to adjust switch queues
(e.g. /opt/app/set_switch_queues).
.TP 8
.B switch_hosts
A space separated list of hosts to set switch queues on; used to override OpenStack.
.TP 8
.B verbose
An integer that controls the verbosity level for flow queue manager logging.
The default level is 0, and can be overridden by the master verbose level.

.SS HTTP Manager Section
The HTTP Manager section starts with the tag \fB:httpmgr\fP.
It configures the HTTP Manager, that serves HTTP requests from clients,
and provides the Tegu API.
.TP 8
.B admin_roles
A comma separated list of OpenStack roles, used to determine who may issue many of
the non-mirroring API calls.
The default admin role is \fIadmintegu_admin\fP.
.TP 8
.B cert
The name of a file containing the certificate to use for the TLS (HTTPS) server Tegu
will provide.
Both cert and key must be provided to start a secure HTTPS server, or else Tegu will
start a non-TLS (HTTP) server.
.TP 8
.B create_cert
If set to \fItrue\fP, Tegu will create a self-signed certificate and store the components
in the files specified by cert and key.
.TP 8
.B key
The name of a file containing the private key to use for the TLS (HTTPS) server Tegu
will provide.
Both cert and key must be provided to start a secure HTTPS server, or else Tegu will
start a non-TLS (HTTP) server.
.TP 8
.B priv_auth
This parameter must have one of the values \fInone\fP, \fIlocal\fP, \fIlocalhost\fP,
or \fItoken\fP.
It defaults to \fIlocalhost\fP.
It determines how to authorize a requestor when making API requests to the server.
When \fInone\fP, all requests are authorized.
When \fIlocal\fP or \fIlocalhost\fP, the request must have originated from the localhost
or have a valid token.
When \fItoken\fP the user \fBmust\fP have sent a valid token, regardless of where the
request originated.
A valid token is a token which contains a role name that is listed in the for the roles
for the command in question.
.TP 8
.B sysproc_roles
A comma separated list of OpenStack roles, used to determine who may issue the
the \fIgraph\fP and \fIlisthosts\fP API calls.
The default admin role is \fItegu_sysproc\fP.
.TP 8
.B verbose
An integer that controls the verbosity level for HTTP manager logging.
The default level is 0, and can be overridden by the master verbose level.

.SS Mirror Section
The Mirror section starts with the tag \fB:mirror\fP.
It configures the part of the API that is responsible for handling mirrors in the network.
Note that if the Mirror section is missing from the configuration file, mirroring will be disabled.
.TP 8
.B allowed_gre_addr
This is a comma separated list of allowed GRE tunnel endpoints, written in CIDR form.
.TP 8
.B enable
Mirroring may also be disabled by giving this parameter a value of \fIno\fP or \fIfalse\fP.
.TP 8
.B min_mirror_expiration
An integer specifying the smallest allowable time period that a mirror may be put in place
(in seconds).
If missing, 0 is assumed.
30 minutes seems like a reasonable preset value.
.TP 8
.B mirror_roles
A comma separated list of OpenStack roles, used to determine who may issue mirroring commands.
The default mirror role is \fItegu_mirror\fP, combined with the list of admin roles
(see admin_roles above).
.TP 8
.B <labelname>
A GRE endpoint can be symbolicly named here via <label>=<IPv4 value>,
e.g. \fBsamplelabel = 12.7.20.15\fP

.SS Network Manager Section
The Network Manager section starts with the tag \fB:network\fP.
It configures the Network Manager, that communicates with the Tegu agent processes.
.TP 8
.B all_paths
Deprecated.  Use \fIfind_paths\fP instead.
.TP 8
.B discount
A non-negative integer value specifying the discount value to reduce bandwidth reservations by.
If the value is between 0 and 100, it is specifies the percentage of bandwidth requested.
If the value is greater than 100, then it is treated as an absolute discount in terms of
bits per second.
.TP 8
.B find_paths
Controls how path searching happens.
Values may be one of: \fBall\fP, \fBmlag\fP, or \fBshortest\fP.
If not supplied, \fBmlag\fP is used as the default.
.TP 8
.B link_alarm
A percentage indicating the percentage of a link's capacity that once reserved for a
given time period will cause an alarm.
.TP 8
.B link_headroom
A percentage indicating the percentage of headroom that each link is to be given;
reservations may use up to the link capacity less this percentage.
.TP 8
.B link_max_cap
Specify the maximum capacity for each link.
If not specified, 10,737,418,240 (10G) is assumed.
.TP 8
.B refresh
An integer specifying the delay between refreshes of the network topology,
either from the static file or from the SDN controller (floodlight).
.TP 8
.B relaxed
A boolean.  If set to \fItrue\fP, then relaxed mode is turned on.
In relaxed mode, Tegu does not do path find or admission control.
By default, relaxed mode is off.
.TP 8
.B user_link_cap
The percentage of link capacity that any single user will be allowed to reserve.
This limit can be increased on a per user basis by sending a \fBsetulcap\fP request via the API.
If the value given here is set to 100, then no limits for any users are set,
EXCEPT if an api call is made to set a limit on a specific user.
.TP 8
.B verbose
An integer that controls the verbosity level for Network Manager logging.
The default level is 0, and can be overridden by the master verbose level.

.SS OpenStack Interface Section
The OpenStack Interface section starts with the tag \fB:osif\fP.
It configures the OpenStack Manager, which communicates with OpenStack (Keystone, Neutron,
and Nova).
.TP 8
.B ostack_list
A comma or space separated list of section names that appear later in the config file,
and/or project (tenant) names.
When a project name is given, it is assumed to use the default values for usr, password
and url that are given in the main \fB:osif\fP section.
If a section name is given, the values for usr, password and url in that section,
if supplied, will override the default values.
The project name must always be supplied in a section if a section is used.
If the value \fIall\fP is used, Tegu will dig out a list of all tenants that are known
to the default user and use those.
The list will be refreshed on a periodic basis, so adding a new tenant when \fIall\fP
is used will automatically be noticed.
If the value \fIoff\fP is used, or if this parameter is not supplied,
the OpenStack Manager is disabled.
.TP 8
.B passwd
The OpenStack password to use when communicating with OpenStack.
.TP 8
.B project
The OpenStack project (tenant) name to use when communicating with OpenStack.
.TP 8
.B refresh
Deprecated. The refresh delay to use (in seconds) when updating OpenStack maps.
If less than 15, Tegu will complain and change the value to 15.
Note that because of design changes, this is not really used anymore.
.TP 8
.B region
The region value to use when getting OpenStack credentials.
.TP 8
.B require_token
If present and set to \fItrue\fP, causes tegu to require that host names on a reservation
request be of the form token/tenantid/hostname, and will confirm that the supplied token
is valid for the tenant.
The tenant ID may be a project name.
.TP 8
.B url
The base URL (without the API version suffix) for the Identity API (Keystone) in your
OpenStack installation.
If the URL does have a version suffix, it will be stripped.
Tegu uses the Keystone Identity API v2.0.
.TP 8
.B usr
The OpenStack user name to use when communicating with OpenStack.
.TP 8
.B verbose
An integer that controls the verbosity level for OpenStack Interface logging.
The default level is 0, and can be overridden by the master verbose level.

.SS Reservation Manager Section
The Reservation Manager section starts with the tag \fB:resmgr\fP.
It configures the Reservation Manager, which maintains the list of reservations,
and is responsible for starting and stopping reservations.
.TP 8
.B chkpt_dir
A directory name that sets the directory where the reservation manager stores its checkpoint files.
If not specified, the default checkpoint directory is \fI/var/lib/tegu\fP.
.TP 8
.B hto_limit
An integer specifying the hard timeout limit that should be used to reset flow-mods on
long reservations.
The default value is 64800 (18 hours).
.TP 8
.B res_refresh
An integer specifying the rate (in seconds) that reservations are refreshed if hto-limit
is non-zero.
Tegu will complain if this value is too low (less than 900 seconds), and will reset the
value to 1800 if this value is less than 120 seconds.
.TP 8
.B super_cookie
Provides the value for a "super cookie" that can be used to manage any reservation.
.TP 8
.B verbose
An integer that controls the verbosity level for reservation manager logging.
The default level is 0, and can be overridden by the master verbose level.

.SH FILES
.TP
/etc/tegu/tegu.cfg
The normal location for the Tegu configuration file.
.TP
/etc/tegu/phys_net_static.json
The physical network description file, in Floodlight format.
See https://floodlight.atlassian.net/wiki/display/floodlightcontroller/Floodlight+REST+API
.TP
/etc/tegu/standby_list
A list of standby hosts that can receive checkpoints of Tegu reservations, and take over
in the event that the running Tegu host dies.

.SH SEE ALSO
tegu(8)
