.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"   Copyright (c) 2013-2015 AT&T Intellectual Property
.\"
.\"   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\"   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"   You may obtain a copy of the License at:
.\"
.\"       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\"   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\"   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\"   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\"   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\"   limitations under the License.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"

.\"
.\"		tegu_req Manual Page
.\"
.\"     Date:		14 Jun 2015
.\"		Author:		E. Scott Daniels
.\"                 Robert Eby
.\"
.\"     Mods:		14 Jun 2015 - Created
.\"					01 Sep 2015 - Filled in unfinished section.
.\"
.TH TEGU_REQ 1 "Tegu Manual"
.CM 4
.SH NAME
tegu_req \- the command line interface to Tegu
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtegu_req\fP [\fB-d\fP] [\fB-f\fP] [\fB-h host[:port]\fP] [\fB-j\fP] [\fB-K\fP] [\fB-k key=value\fP] [\fB-r name\fP] [\fB-s\fP] [\fB-t token\fP] [\fB-T\fP] \fBcommand\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fItegu_req(1)\fR provides a command line interface to the running Tegu system in an
OpenStack cloud.
It gathers command arguments, does some preliminary validation upon them, and then runs
the command by sending the command to Tegu's HTTP API.
\fItegu_req\fP will normally be run on the same machine as the running Tegu system, however
it can be run on a different machine if the \fB-h\fP option is used.
It requires the \fIrjprt\fP binary be in the user's $PATH.
.P
For details on the Tegu HTTP API, look at \fItegu(8)\fP.

.SH COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
\fItegu_req\fR interprets the following options:
.\" ==========
.TP 8
.B \-d
Causes JSON output from Tegu to be formatted in a dotted hierarchical style.
The default is to display the output in a indented, nested style (but see also -j below).
.\" ==========
.TP 8
.B \-f
Causes \fItegu_req\fP to prompt for a username and password, even if these are already found
in the OS_USERNAME and OS_PASSWORD environment variables.
This option is only useful when the -T option is also used.
.\" ==========
.TP 8
.B \-h host[:port]
Use this option if Tegu is running on some other host, or on a non-standard port.
Normally Tegu is assumed to be running on the localhost, on port 29444.
.\" ==========
.TP 8
.B \-j
Causes JSON output from Tegu to be sent directly to the output (but see also -d above).
.\" ==========
.TP 8
.B \-K
Causes tegu_req to use the Keystone command line interface, rather than the direct OpenStack
Identity API, when needed to generate an authentication token.
Only useful if -T is not used.
.TP 8
.B \-k key=value
Causes extra arguments, in the form of key=value, to be passed to Tegu for certain requests.
The commands where this is used are: listres, listhosts, graph, reserve, steer.
.TP 8
.B \-r name
Allow specification of a "root" name for the JSON output.
The default root name is the name of the command (e.g. "graph" when using the graph command).
.TP 8
.B \-s
Causes tegu_req to use secure TLS (HTTPS) protocol for requests to Tegu.
.TP 8
.B \-t token
Allows a Keystone token to be supplied for privileged commands.
.TP 8
.B \-T
Causes a token to be generated using the OS_USERNAME, OS_PASSWORD, OS_TENANT_NAME, and OS_AUTH_URL
environment variables.
If these variables are not in the environment, they will be prompted for, and if -f is used,
the username and password will always be prompted for.

.SH COMMANDS
The command that Tegu should run follows the options, and is one of the following.

.SS Bandwidth Allocation Commands
.TP 8
.B reserve [bandwidth_in,]bandwidth_out [start-]expiry host1-host2 [cookie [dscp]]
The reserve command is used to reserve bandwidth between two endpoints in the network.
It expects a bandwidth, host pair, and start/end time stamps on the command line and causes
a reservation request to be sent to tegu.
.IP
\fBbandwidth\fP Is the desired amount of bandwidth to reserve between hosts.
May be supplied as 10K or 10,000 etc.
Bandwidth may also be supplied as two separated values: bandwidth_in,bandwidth_out.
When specified this way, the inbound value will be used to reserve bandwidth for traffic
from host2 (in) to host1, and the outbound value will be used to reserve bandwidth for
traffic from host1 (out) to host2.
If only a single value is given, then that value is used to set bandwidth in each
direction (middle switches will have 2x the value specified).
.IP
\fB[start-]expiry\fP
Defines the starting and ending time of the reservation.
If start is omitted, then the current time is assumed.
Both times should be UNIX timestamps.
The time window specification can also be supplied as \fB+nnn\fP which will be interpreted
as an expiry time nnn seconds from the current time.
(If the time window defined by this parameter is too small, Tegu will refuse to establish
a reservation.)
.IP
\fBhost1,host2\fP
Defines the host pair for which traffic will be managed.
For situations where traffic needs to be managed between a VM and any external host,
the second host should be the router (e.g. 10.7.0.1).
Hosts may be supplied as either names or IP addresses.
If Tegu has been started in tenant aware mode, then the host specification is Tenant-ID/Host
(e.g. 39b219aaa21c4677ae7dee310ddb3790/esd_ss3).
The tenant aware mode allows the VMs to reside under different tenants and to still have a
reservation between them established and managed by Tegu.
.IP
If the new version of Tegu is running, and is configured to require tokens as a part of
the reservation host name, then the format of host1 and host2 is: token/tenant/host.
The tenant can be either the ID or the name, and the token is what is returned by a
keystone token-get request.
Tegu supports the use of VM ID (uuid strings) in place of tenant/host pair in the above description.
If a VM ID is being used in place of a tenant/VM-name pair the syntax is token//ID where
the tenant portion is omitted (//).
.IP
A reservation between a VM and a host with an external (non-VM) IP address is created using
the following host1,host2 syntax: token/tenant/VM,!//IP-address.
The bang (!) indicates that the second host does not have a token that can be verified,
and causes Tegu to establish a reservation for traffic between the VM and the IP address
which is protected as far as the VM's gateway.
.IP
The token command line parameters (-t token or -T) can be used, and the resulting/associated
values can be substituted into the host name(s) any place that a %t appears.
Using the example above, if the command line contains a -T (generate token) then the
following host name would cause the generated token to be placed at the head of the name: %t/cloudqos/esd-ss3.
.IP
Transport layer (TCP or UDP) ports may also be specified for one or both hosts.
If it is necessary to use a port it can be added to the host name following a colon (:).
For example: daniels8:4444.
A port mask may be added after the port, separating the mask from the port with a slant
(e.g. 4444/0xfff0).
Port masks are supported only in OVS v1.6 and later, so be sure that the virtual switches
in use are new enough when using masks.
The port value may also be given as a hex value if prefixed with a leading 0x.
.IP
If the VM is capable of acting as a VLAN trunk, meaning that packets are generate with a
VLAN ID in place, the VLAN ID may be used to match packets.
If this is desired, the VLAN ID used for matching should be placed in curly braces,
and appended as the last part of the endpoint (host) name (e.g. daniels8:4444{3}
when using a transport port number, or daniels8{3} if a port number is not required).

.IP
\fBcookie\fP
Is a string that is used when deleting a reservation.
In theory this cookie is known only to the reservation creator and tegu will only allow a
reservation to be deleted if a matching cookie is supplied.
The cookie may not contain any spaces, and does not need to be unique across reservations.
.IP
\fBdscp\fP
The DSCP value to use.
Must be between 0 and 64.
The default, if not specified is WTF?

.TP 8
.B owreserve [bandwidth_in,]bandwidth_out [start-]expiry host1-host2 cookie [dscp]
A one-way bandwidth reservation is necessary when the second endpoint in the pair is in a
different project, or lies outside of the cloud environment, AND the NAT-ting router is
not a neutron router.
In this situation, Tegu can only establish ingress DSCP markings and rate limiting for the
reservation, and all DSCP markings will persist (there is no spot where Tegu generated
flow-mods can turn them off before the packets leave our controlled environment).
The one-way reservation request is similar to the general bandwidth reservation request
with the notable difference that the order of the endpoints does matter: the internal,
or source, endpoint must be defined first.

.TP 8
.B cancel reservation-id [cookie]
The cancel command allows a reservation to be removed from Tegu.
The reservation ID that was returned when the reservation was made, and the cookie if one
was given on the reservation, are required.

.TP 8
.B setdiscount value
Set the discount value to \fBvalue\fP.
The value is a number that may be suffixed with a
\fBM\fP or \fBMB\fP (million),
\fBG\fP or \fBGB\fP (billion),
\fBK\fP or \fBKB\fP (thousand),
\fBm\fP or \fBMiB\fP (1024^2),
\fBg\fP or \fBGiB\fP (1024^3),
or
\fBk\fP or \fBKiB\fP (1024).

.TP 8
.B setulcap tenant percentage
Each user (tenant in OpenStack terminology) may reserve up to a maximum percentage of any
network link as defined in the Tegu configuration file.
If it is necessary to treat some users differently, with either a higher or lower limit
than is set in the configuration file, the setulcap API request can be used.
The request supplies the user name or ID and the maximum percentage (e.g. 15%) that
should be enforced for the given user.
The following illustrates the request syntax which would allow reservations for the
tenant1 group to use as much as 25% of any link:
.IP
\f(CWtegu_req setulcap tenant1 25%\fP
.IP
\fBCAUTION:\fP Setting the user capacity to a value that is lower than the user's current
reservation usage will prevent the user from creating new reservations, but will not have
any affect on the existing reservations.
The administration staff can cancel reservations if needed, however they are not
automatically affected by this command.
This command only sets the limit for future requests made by the user.
.TP 8
.B listulcap
The listulcaps command causes tegu to generate a list of all of the user link limits that
are currently set (see setulcap).
The list includes the default which is set from the config file.

.TP 8
.B listres
The \fIlistres\fP command causes Tegu to return the current list of active (flow-mods
should already be in place) and future reservations.
For each reservation the following information is listed:
.IP
\(bu The reservation state (ACTIVE or PENDING).
.IP
\(bu The time remaining until the reservation expires, or the time before it becomes active.
.IP
\(bu The reserved bandwidth in bytes/sec.
.IP
\(bu The hosts (VMs) involved.
.IP
\(bu The reservation ID assigned by Tegu (necessary to cancel the reservation).

.TP 8
.B listqueue
Lists all queues on the switches or bridges being managed.

.SS Topology Commands
.TP 8
.B graph
The graph request causes tegu to return a description of the network as it has been described
by floodlight, or by the physical network description file.
The graph is a fairly lengthy representation of the network.
.TP 8
.B listhosts
Generates a JSON list of all hosts known to Tegu.
The list includes which includes host name, VM UUID, MAC address, IP address(es), name, switch(es) and port(s).

.SS Flow Steering Commands
.TP 8
.B steer {[start-]end|+seconds} tenant src-host dest-host mbox-list [cookie]
This is a prototype flow-steering command (deprecated).

.SS Mirroring Commands
.TP 8
.B add-mirror [start-]end port1[,port2...] output [cookie] [vlan]
This command causes a mirror to be set up on one or more ports, mirroring traffic to an output port or GRE tunnel.
.IP
.B [start-]end
As with the reservations API, the start and end values indicate the time period when the
mirroring should be in effect.
Both times are normally UNIX timestamps.
If start is omitted, or precedes the current time, then the current time is used for the
start of the mirroring period.
If the end time is specified as "unbounded", then it is set to a time very far in the
future (1/1/3000 to be exact).
Needless to say, end should be greater than start, or the request is rejected.
The time window specification can also be supplied as \fB+nnn\fP which will be interpreted
as an expiry time nnn seconds from the current time.
Regardless of how the end time is specified, if the end time is less than the start time
+ \fImin_mirror_expiration\fP (where \fImin_mirror_expiration\fP, in seconds, is specified
in the Tegu configuration file), then the request is rejected.
.IP
.B port1[,port2...]
This specifies the port(s) to be mirrored.
Traffic going both to and from the port(s) is mirrored (e.g. there is no uni-directional mirroring).
If multiple ports are listed, a separate mirror will be set up per physical host.
That is, if all ports reside on one physical machine, then one mirror will be created and returned.
If the ports are on multiple machines, then several mirrors may be constructed.
In this scenario, it is possible that only a subset of the mirrors may be constructed successfully;
the output JSON will indicate which mirrors succeeded.
Ports are specified in the same way as hosts are for the Tegu reserve request; e.g.
.IP
name or IP - if not in "tenant aware mode", the name or IP address of the host attached to the port.
.IP
token/tenant/host - for "host" (with 1 port only) on "tenant".
.IP
token//vm_uuid - for the host with UUID "vm_uuid"
.IP
mac:mac ID - names the port directly using the MAC id of the VM attached to the port.
Tegu will attempt to determine which physical machine the bridge is on and set up the mirror appropriately.

.IP
.B output
Specifies where the mirror should be directed to.
This may either be another port, or a GRE tunnel.
If specified as an IP address (IPv4 or IPv6) or DNS name, then a new GRE endpoint is constructed
on the \fBbr-int\fP bridge (with the specified IP address), and the mirror is connected to this endpoint.
If specified as a port (using the same syntax as for ports above), then the mirror is
connected to the pre-existing port.
Note: initially, only local ports on \fBbr-int\fP will be supported, that is sending mirroring
output to a port on a different host from the mirrored ports will not be initially
supported, as it requires flow steering.
When mirroring to a GRE tunnel, the IP address of the tunnel must be in a list of valid address
ranges (\fIallowed_gre_addr\fP) provided in the Tegu configuration when Tegu starts up
(which may possibly include 0.0.0.0/0 or 2001::/16).
The output parameter may also be specified as "label:<label>", where <label> refers to a
label in the Tegu configuration file (of the form label=<ip address>).
This allows GRE endpoints to be pre-specified.
.IP
.B cookie
Is an optional string that is used to provide a minimum of security for the mirror.
If provided, it is required when deleting (del-mirror) or viewing (show-mirror) the mirror.
The cookie may not contain any spaces, and does not need to be unique across mirror requests.
.IP
.B vlan
Is an optional string that can be used to specify one or more (comma separated) VLANs to
be added to the create mirror request passed to openvswitch.
If provided, it must consist of a comma separated list of VLAN ids from 0 to 4095.
If the string is provided and is syntactically incorrect, the mirror request is rejected.

.TP 8
.B del-mirror name [cookie]
This command deletes the mirror \fIname\fP.
The \fIcookie\fP argument is optional, but must be provided and match the cookie used to create the mirror,
if the mirror was created with a cookie.
This deletes the mirror immediately.
If the mirror was active, and directing to a GRE output port, this GRE port is also deleted.
The name is the name of the mirror that Tegu returned when the mirror was initially created,
and the full URL is the url returned.
.TP 8
.B list-mirrors
This command displays all the mirrors that Tegu knows about, along with their access URLs.
.TP 8
.B show-mirror name [cookie]
This command displays details about the mirror \fIname\fP.
The \fIcookie\fP argument is optional, but must be provided and match the cookie used to create the mirror,
if the mirror was created with a cookie.

.SS Miscellaneous Commands
.TP 8
.B ping
This command is used to check connectivity to the Tegu system itself.
tegu_req will attempt to contact the main tegu process, and report back as to whether it was successful.

.TP 8
.B refresh [ vmname | tenant/vmname ]
When a user migrates a VM they are expected to cancel and reissue reservation requests before
and after the migration of any VM that is a apart of an existing reservation (whether future
or active).
The operations staff may issue a privileged command which refreshes any existing reservations
for a VM that has already been migrated.
Following the migration of a VM, the refresh command will reset reservations that were associated
with the VM, and will preserve reservation related information (name and cookie) such that
the reservation owner can still manage the reservation.
The following syntax illustrates how the tegu_req command line interface can be used to
refresh the reservations associated with the VM named \fIdemovm8\fP in the \fIdemo\fP tenant:

tegu_req refresh demo/demovm8

.TP 8
.B verbose level [subsystem]
The verbose command allows the verbosity level to be adjusted.
The level affects what diagnostics are written to the standard error device.
The larger the value the chattier Tegu is.
Tegu supports a two level verbosity specification.
The 'master' level is applied to all components of Tegu.
If a specific component name is given with the desired level, only that component will be
more chatty than the current master setting.
(Setting a component level lower than the master setting will not have the effect of
keeping the component quieter than the others.)
Level is a numeric value (0 is 'off'), and component is one of the following strings:
.IP
.B master
Sets the level for all components.
This is the default if no component is supplied.
.IP
.B osif
Sets the level for the OpenStack interface component
.IP
.B resmgr
Sets the level for the Reservation manager component
.IP
.B net
Sets the level for the Network manager component
.IP
.B fq
Sets the level for the flowmod/queue interface component
.IP
.B http
Sets the level for the HTTP api component
.IP
.B agent
Sets the level for the Agent manager component.
.IP
.B gizmos
Sets the level for various library components that are used.

.TP 8
.B listconns [ name [ name] ... | < file ]
The listconns request accepts a host name as a parameter and requests that tegu list all
known switch connections associated with the name.
An OpenStack VM ID, or the host's IP address may be given in place of the name parameter,
and if multiple names are given on the command line, a request for each will be made.
If name is omitted from the command line, the script will read the names from standard in.
An example listconns command is shown below which will list all three hosts:
.IP
\f(CWtegu_req listconns vm1 vm2 vm3\fP
.IP
If tegu is running in project (tenant) mode, then the project ID (tenant ID) must be
prepended to the VM name (e.g. cca822aceabb4aa3ac6cb6ff065a82de/vm1)

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 15
OS_TENANT_NAME
.TP
OS_USERNAME
.TP
OS_PASSWORD
These OpenStack environment variables specify the tenant, user name, and password to use
when asking Keystone to generate a token.
If they are not in the environment, they will be prompted for if a token is needed.
.TP
OS_AUTH_URL
This OpenStack environment variables specifies the URL to use when contacting Keystone.
If it is not in the environment, it will be prompted for if a token is needed.

.SH SEE ALSO
rjprt(1), tegu.cfg(5), tegu(8)
